when I was a kid I loved the
idea of finding a new planet way
away from the Sun you know we
might have just like bound one
right
hey guys Amy and trace with you
on dnews today
the biggest news in the world no
bigger ok
the biggest news in the solar
system is that researchers from
the california institute of
technology might have found a
new planet currently known as
planet 9 this new discovery
could be hugely significant
planet 9 has about 10 times the
mass of earth and is probably
close in size to Neptune
on top of that it is so far away
this giant planet orbits roughly
2.8 billion miles from the Sun
making its year last between ten
and twenty thousand earth years
Amy this planet is bonkers and
before you ask
it is definitely a planet
according to the international
astronomical union definition a
planet needs to orbit the Sun
Jack be massive enough to be
around double check and have
enough gravitational pull to
clear its orbit triple check
in fact between its size and
distance from the Sun planet 9
dominates an area larger than
any other giant planet we know
this is so cool
except now full disclosure we
haven't actually seen planet 9
yeah true for the moment this
new planet is theoretical which
raises a very interesting
question if this planet has been
in our own solar system this
whole time
why are we only finding it now
well because we weren't looking
for it this was kind of an
accident in 1992 astronomers at
the University of Hawaii
discovered this small object
orbiting out past the dwarf
planet pluto at least 40 times
the distance from Earth to the
Sun since then astronomers have
been scanning this region called
the Kuiper belt and reporting on
their findings
during these scans a research
team at Caltech notice that six
of the 13 most distant known
Kuiper belt objects clumped
together in strange way the
objects all travel at different
rates but they all have
similarly elliptical orbits
tilted from our own another pair
of researchers tried to figure
out what was causing these small
bodies to behave so strangely
but also similarly by mapping
the gravity in orbit of all the
known objects they determined
there's just not enough mass in
that part of the Kuiper belt to
affect them like this the Kuiper
belt would need to be more than
100 times more massive to be the
culprit
so what else could be causing
this weird behavior a massive
planet by trying different
arrangements using computer
simulations the researchers
determined the only thing that
could cause that gravitational
effect would be a massive planet
way out in the Kuiper belt
this is how they found a planet
9 this might sound like a lot of
sketchy guesswork but it's
actually a viable method of
finding planets that has worked
before
in the early eighteen hundreds
astronomers tracking the newly
discovered planet Uranus notice
that it didn't follow the orbit
mathematical model said it
should
the only explanation was that
some other planet without
they're tugging on Uranus
so they use Newtonian laws to
mathematically predict where and
what that object should be and
lo and behold they found that
Thun orbiting roughly where the
mystery object was predicted
once astronomers had
mathematical models showing
where to look for Neptune it was
pretty easy to spot it I mean
considering the scale of the
solar system neptune is not that
far away for a powerful
telescope planet 9 on the other
hand is not only really far away
astronomers don't totally know
where to look for it just yet as
researchers continue to refine
their simulations to learn more
about planet nines orbit and
influence on the distant solar
system and in the meantime
astronomers are going to start
sky hunting
if the planet is at its closest
point to the Sun right now it
should be visible in images
gathered during previous surveys
but if it's at its farthest from
the Sun it might still be
visible though we need the
world's largest telescopes to
spot it if it's there and
according to the math it
probably is planet 9 could
change the understanding of our
solar system
if you want to explore more
Spacey things with me check out
my own channel vintage space
where I dig into all kinds of
things related to early space
exploration in the early 1960s
NASA didn't look into building a
doughnut-shaped inflatable space
station but it never got off the
ground in large part because the
agency with laser focused on
getting a man to the moon by the
end of the nineteen sixties
Amy what do you think we're
going to name this planet like
we do Roman stuff so planet
Baucus and go somewhere else
like plenty doesn't weigh be
planet trace
I like that that sounds good
we do that what would you guys
name it let us know down in the
comments make sure you subscribe
for more dnews and also
subscribe to his channel and
thanks for watching